In this section, you'll learn
about the powerful feature
of the Kotlin language,
which is called
lambda with receiver.
In essence, it might be
considered as a union of
two ideas of two other features:
extension functions and lambdas.
Now, we'll discuss
what does that mean.
Let`s try to read the example.
We create a StringBuilder,
append some strings to it,
and then get
the resulting string.
Probably, we intend
to somehow return it.
The problem in
this code, a small one.
The one that everyone is
used to working in general,
is that you have to repeat
the variable name several times,
to call different
operations on it.
In slides, I have
a very short name for
the variable, but in real life,
it probably will be
called StringBuilder
and you will have to repeat
these names several times.
In Kotlin, you can do that.
You can use with for this case.
I suppose it should be
clear what's going on.
You no longer need to repeat
their civil several times.
You can call all the members and
extensions without
explicit receiver specification,
like members inside the class.
But the most interesting
thing on this slide,
it's actually its name.
It's called the with function,
thus with is a regular function
defined in the standard library.
Here, we see the same pattern
used as we've discussed before,
something that looks like a
built in language construct,
is a regular function
defined in the Kotlin
standard library.
In some other languages, with or
similar concept is
a language construct.
To make it possible to define
such functions in the library,
Kotlin supports the concept
of lambda with the receiver.
Let's first find the lambda here.
With is a regular function
and lambda is
its second argument.
When we introduced lambdas,
we've already talked
about the rule
that if lambda is
the last argument,
it can be moved out
of the parenthesis.
Another syntax is putting lambda
explicitly as
the second argument.
No one does that because
it's not very readable.
But it demonstrates that with
is a regular function call.
So curly braces mark the lambda
and this is an implicit receiver
inside this lambda.
Lambda with the
receiver is a lambda
with these reference
available inside.
As usual for these reference,
it can then meet it.
That's how we get
this nice syntax without
explicit to this.
Lambda with the receiver is
simply lambda with
implicit to this.
You can access these inside
lambda and call members
on the receiver.
To check that you understand
that, answer the question.
What is the type of this
in the following example?
The type is StringBuilder,
when we are talking
about the with function,
this refers to
the first argument.
Its type is the same as
the type of the argument,
which is StringBuilder here.
There is a direct correspondence
between regular functions
and regular lambdas,
and between extension functions
and lambdas with receiver.
The first name for lambdas with
the receiver are
voice extension lambdas.
Sometimes people may call
them extension lambdas
because of this correspondence,
is the synonym.
At some point, we
decided that lambda
with the receiver is
a most clear name
which better explains
the concept and illustrates
what is going on.
It is preferable for
learning these feature.
What is the correspondence?
Inside the body of
the extension function,
you can use these as
an implicit receiver.
You can omit this and
simply call the members
of the receiver.
Lambda with receiver
is very similar,
because of these
inside this lambda.
If you can omit it
and simply call
members without
explicit specification.
There is also correspondence
between the ways how
you call lambdas.
We've discussed that you
can store a lambda in
a variable and the same works
for lambda the receiver.
You can see how the type for
lambda with receiver
looks in Kotlin.
You put a receiver type
before the parameter list,
then follows the dot,
then the perimeters as
usual in the parenthesis.
The return type is
specified after the arrow,
like forever the lambda.
When you call a regular lambda,
you call it as
a regular function.
You can call lambda
of the receiver,
you call it as
an extension function.
You see this correspondence.
Regular lambdas correspond
to regular functions,
lambda's with the receiver
correspond to
extension functions.
Another example
that I want to show
you is the buildString function.
You don't need to use with
for building a string,
it was used for illustration.
In real life, you
can use buildString
to build a StringBuilder
and convert it to a string.
It takes a lambda with
the receiver as an argument.
Now let's look under the hood and
look at how the buildString
function is implemented.
We know that it takes
lambda with the receiver
as an argument.
So it expect the parameter of
extension function type
to StringBuilder.
What it does inside is
something very simple.
It creates a StringBuilder.
In the end, it returns
the resulting string
from the StringBuilder.
But without adding content
to the StringBuilder,
you'll get an empty string
as the result.
In the middle, you
should somehow call
all the actions on
the StringBuilder
provided in the lambda.
Now, try to complete
these buildString definition.
The answer is that
you call this lambda
as an extension function on
this StringBuilder variable.
As we've discussed, you
call the variables of
extension function types
as extension functions.
This is exactly what you
do inside this function.
This line invokes the lambda body
and performs all the actions
specified there.
In this case, it calls
a bad actions specified
in the lambda.
Note that the
buildString function
is also declared as in line.
Under the hood, the function body
and the lambda body
will be aligned.
So no extra objects for storing
lambda will be created.
The same aligning magic works
with lambdas with receivers.
Lambda with receiver is
this syntactic thing for
the lambda that interprets
one of its parameters as these.
To some extent an
extension function stores
one of its parameters
as the receiver,
and the extension
lambda does the same.
That's how with is implemented.
It's a very simple function,
it only calls its second argument
the lambda with receiver,
on its first argument
the receiver itself.
You call block on
the receiver argument as
an extension function.
Lambda with the receiver is
a very powerful mechanism that
allows us to create domain
specific languages
just as in Kotlin.
The whole topic of
how to do that,
we'll discuss in
the next course in detail.
Right now, I only want
to briefly mention
that and show you that
lambdas with receivers
are really useful.
In Kotlin, you can
define the sales
for any HTML like
structure like HTML.
Everyone knows HTML.
That's why it is
such a good example
to illustrate the idea.
This code looks like HTML
but it's not a text,
it's a irregular coding code,
HTML and table
a regular coding functions.
You can see how you mix
the coding language
constructs like for
loop with HTML syntax.
All these curly braces
denote in fact lambdas
with receivers.
I have mentioned that
if the curly braces
are called bold,
that means they surround lambdas.
Here they're also
lambdas with receivers.
Here invoke table function
of the receiver
of some specific type
corresponding to HTML tag.
Later, we'll discuss in detail
how to define such functions.
Another example that
employs lambdas
with receivers is
gradual build scripts.
Now gradual script can
be written in Kotlin.
You again can notice
all the curly braces.
As you expect, they are
lambdas with receivers.
You now know that
lambda with receiver is
simply lambda with
an implicit inside.
In this sense, it`s similar
to an extension function.
Later in the next course,
we'll discuss how to use lambdas
with receivers to
create these cells,
the main specific
languages in Kotlin.
Next let's see what
other functions that use
lambdas with receivers you
may find in the Kotlin
standard library.